Now, that we've connected to our data source,
and for this part of the lesson I'll be using
the Google Analytics data from the demo account of the Google merchandise store.
You can see that that's a name that I've given to the report.
You could make your report
name anything that you like just as you can't with other Google Docs.
But it's time to explore some of the chart options that are available in Data Studio.
I've got a single page report setup here with some different charts on it.
This there's our finished product for today,
but we're going to erase it all so that we can go back through and set it up together.
It's just as easy as selecting and deleting,
this is important to remember,
so that if you are going through and working
on something and you don't like how it's turning out,
it's just as easily as selecting and deleting to get rid of it.
All right. So, now we're going to focus on the 11 types of charts,
that are native to date of studio.
Each of them is represented by a corresponding button up on this toolbar,
and also appears as a choice from the insert menu at the top of the page.
The 11 types of charts are;
time series, bar chart,
combo chart, pie chart,
table, geo map, scorecard,
scatter and bubble, bullet chart,
area chart, and pivot table.
Before we look more closely at some of these charts
and walk through drafting some of them on a report page,
I want to call your attention to an element that I'd like to add first,
and that is the date range control.
You see this button right here if we go ahead and click it.
I like to add the date range control,
because it allows us to adjust the time span for each of
the metrics that aren't already governed by their own date range selector,
and gives us a chance to play with the data as
we're working with it to see if it makes sense to us.
When you're done, it's also going to give others who get access to
your report a typically desirable way to interact with the data too.
So, here we are in the edit view,
and we're just going to click on the date range selector.
You can see that our cursor changes to a cross here,
it's asking us to draw where we want that to be.
I usually put mine at the top right of the page,
because it imitates the Google Analytics interface,
it's familiar to a lot of people and they typically understand exactly what it is.
Now, in the date range property panel over here,
we're going to go ahead and just give it a generic date range.
Let's just say third through 16th of June,
we'll go ahead and hit apply.
That's just what we're starting,
you'll be able to see if we go over here and click to view,
that we have a very familiar interface that we can work
with in where we're view mode and even when weren't edit mode as well.
Now, this looks a little bit small,
so I'm going to click over on style.
I want the picker to be a little bit bigger,
let's go ahead and make it 18.
Let's make it 24.
I think that looks a lot better,
and we can meet that up a little bit they're.
Perfect. Okay. Now back to our charts.
In important consideration is that each chart,
let's just go ahead and look at geo map.
For example. We're going to just do a quick drop of this.
It's going to come with its own defaults set up over here.
So, it's going to default to country ISO view,
as dimension, it's going to default to sessions as a metric,
and the zoom area as the world.
It is pretty unlikely that those defaults are
going to meet your needs without any customization but you.
As you've heard in other lessons,
and you've experienced with your projects so far don't be afraid to get
in and test out all the fantastic options that are available to you,
until you find out what works best.
All right. This has served it's illustrative purposes,
so we're going to go ahead and get rid of it.
One of the most simple charts that you can use,
which because of its simplicity tends to lend
some pretty good impact is called the scorecard.
It displays a summary of a single metric based on the date selected.
It's often used for things like KPIs and other numbers that really need to stand out.
But again, we're talking about individual values.
We're going to set one up today to report revenue.
Again, we click the button,
we make the box,
and here we have the defaults.
This is defaulting with the metric of sessions,
the date range is auto,
which is where we're going to keep it with.
But this actually does is make sure,
that the chart is going to be listening for its date cues from here.
But, we've got to go ahead and change this metric.
You see that when we click on it were brought to the metric picker,
we're going to scroll down to e-commerce,
and we're going to find revenue.
I have a habit of rolling right past it,
it did not do that today.
We're going to select it, and you can see that it's
working it's actually pulling the data for this date,
and in this circumstance,
it's giving us a total.
Now, where do we want to place it on the page?
Revenue often referred to as the bottom line.
Let's go ahead and put it near the bottom of the page for today.
There we go, click off and then just as a quick little test,
you want to go in and adjust the date range,
and make sure that the revenue adjusts and it does
you know that these two things are talking to each other and listening to each other.
Typically, the response is going to be that's cool,
but it's not enough.
A really common question that follows when we know
how much revenue is for certain amount of time is.
What did it look like over different days during that period of time,
say from June third to June ninth of 2018?
Well, we have another chart called the time series chart,
and that is going to be our best bet to answer a question like this.
Let's go ahead and select it.
I always tend to make these big,
and you can always make them smaller later, and we're going to draw it here.
Again, this is coming with its own defaults over here.
It is doing a date and it is doing sessions over that date.
Now, these two things aren't going to work for our needs today.
So, we're gonna go ahead and change them.
Specifically, it's the metric that we want to change.
We're really not interested in sessions,
we are interested again in revenue.
Let's go ahead and click that,
and here we go.
Now we've got a visual of how revenue trended over this a date range.
Here we're going to go back,
because I don't think this is quite informative enough,
and we can do some things to make it more informative.
If we click on style,
we can tell it to show the data points and even show the data labels.
This doesn't clutter the chart too much and gives
us more information without having to look
over at the X and Y axes each time to figure out what it is.
One more time we're going to go through and we're going to change this.
Make sure that everything is clicking.
It does, you can see the big differences and variation.
So, with just these two elements,
we've started to answer some common questions about
Google Merchandise store revenue for this time period.
But as is always the case,
answers we get more questions.
So, if someone just asks.
What was our product category breakdown for sales during that same period of time,
wanting to know which product categories were performing?
Well, of course we have got a chart for that too,
and for that we're going to go to the pie chart.
Again, go ahead and find it at home make it big.
As matter of fact, this is a good time for us to dynamically
resize a few things to make some more room.
I don't want to be able to read these labels nice and clearly.
As you can see, the chart as
provided with defaults does not answer the questions that we had hoped.
When go ahead now and change the dimension,
there's going to be a content grouping for product categories,
we're going to select that and it's not sessions that we're interested in, its revenue.
So we will go back to e-commerce.
Go back to revenue,
and now the chart tells us the answer
in some regards to the question that we were asked which is.
How are our product category is performing again during this same period of time?
If we change the time we are going to see that the mix changes.
Sometimes it takes a little bit more of
a dramatic change to change the mix significantly,
especially, if you have Nest really performed well that week.
You can see how with just these few items we have been able to ask questions,
get answers, and generate more questions.
This is the very nature of what were intended to do with Google Analytics,
and how we use Google Data Studio to help us present our data.
What I encourage you to do,
is to go ahead and give a try to any or all of
the other charts that we didn't have time or space to get into today.
See which ones apply best to your reporting needs.